now Samson went to Gaza and saw a harlot
there and went into her when the gay
sites were told Samson has come here
they surrounded the place and lay in
wait for him all night at the gate of
the city they were quiet all night in
the morning when it is daylight we will
kill him
and Samson lay low till midnight then he
arose at midnight took hold of the doors
of the gate of the city and the two gate
posts pulled them up bar and all put
them on his shoulders and carried them
to the top of the hill that faces Hebron
afterward it happened that he loved a
woman in the valley of Sorek whose name
was Delilah and the Lords of the
Philistines came up to her and said to
her entice him and find out where his
great strength lies and by what means we
may overpower him that we may bind him
to afflict him and every one of us will
give you 1,100 pieces of silver
so Delilah said to Samson please tell me
where your great strength lies and with
what you may be bound to afflict you if
they bind me with seven fresh bowl
streams not yet dried then I shall
become weak and be like any other man so
the Lords of the Philistines brought up
to her seven fresh bowstrings not yet
bride and she bound him with them now
men were lying in wait staying with her
in the room and she said to him
the Philistines are upon you Samson but
he broke the bowstrings as a strand of
yarn laughs when it touches fire so the
secret of his strength was not no look
you have marked me and told me lies now
please tell me what you may be bound
with if they bind me securely with new
ropes that have never been used
then I shall become
and be like any other man therefore
Delilah took new ropes and bound him
with them and said to him
the Philistines are upon you Samson and
men were lying in wait staying in the
room but he broke them off his on the
thread until now you have mocked me and
told me lies tell me what you may be
bound with if you weave the seven locks
of my head into the web of the Loom so
she wove it tightly with the baton of
the Loom and said to him the philistines
are upon you samson but he awoke from
his sleep and pulled out to happen in
the web from the loom how can you say I
love you when your heart is not with me
you have mocked me these three times and
have not told me where your great
strength lies and it came to pass when
she pestered him daily with her words
and pressed him so that his soul was
vexed to death that he told her all his
heart
no razor has ever come upon my head for
I have been a Nazarite to God from my
mother's womb if I am shaving then my
strength will leave me and I shall
become weak and be like any other man
when Delilah saw that he had told her
all his heart
she sent and called for the Lords of the
Philistines come up once more for he has
told me all his heart so the Lords of
the Philistines came up to her and
brought the money in their hand
[Music]
then she lulled him to sleep on her
knees and called for a man and had him
shave off the seven locks of his head
[Music]
then she began to torment him and his
strength left him the Philistines are
upon you Samson so he will go out as
before at other times and shake myself
free but he did not know that the Lord
had departed from then the Philistines
took him and put our design and brought
him down to Gaza they bound him with
bronze fetter and he became a grinder in
the prison
however the hair of his head began to
grow again after it had been shaven now
the Lords of the Philistines gathered
together to offer a great sacrifice to
daven their God and to rejoice our God
has delivered into our hands
Samson our enemy when the people saw him
they praised their God for they said our
God has delivered into our hands
our enemy the destroyer of our land and
the one who multiplied our dead so it
happened when their hearts were merry
but they said call for Samson but he may
perform for us so they called for Samson
from the prison and he performed for
them and they stationed him between the
pillars and Samson set of a lad who held
him by the hand let me feel the pillars
which support the temple so that I can
lean on them
now the temple was full of men and women
all the Lords of the Philistines were
there about 3,000 men and women on the
roof watch him while Samson deformed
then Samson called to the Lord O Lord
God remember me I pray strengthen me I
pray just this once
Oh God that I may with one blow take
vengeance on the Philistines for my two
eyes and Samson took hold of the two
middle pillars which supported the
temple and he braced himself against
them one on his right and the other on
his left let me die with the Philistines
and he pushed with all his might
and the temple fair on the Lord's and
all the people who were in it so the
dead that he killed at his death were
more than he had killed in his life and
his brothers and all his father's
household came down and took him and
brought him up and buried him between
zorah and eshtaol in the tomb of his
father
Manoah he had judged Israel 20 years
you
[Music]